New durability section - in development (#4677)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/5/durability/lag-control.mdx

  - /pgd/latest/bdr/lag-control/
---

Commit scope kind: `LAG CONTROL`

## Overview

Lag Control provides a mechanism where, if replication is running outside of
limits set, a delay is injected into the origin node's client connections after
processing transactions that make replicable updates. This delay is designed to
slow the incoming transactions and bring replication back within the defined
limits.

## Background

The data throughput of database applications on a PGD origin node can exceed the
rate at which committed data can replicate to downstream peer nodes.

If this imbalance persists, it can put satisfying organizational objectives 
such as RPO, RCO, and GEO at risk.

!!! information

-  RPO - Recovery point objective specifies the maximum-tolerated amount of data
   that can be lost due to unplanned events, usually expressed as an amount of
   time. In PGD, RPO determines the acceptable amount of committed data that
   hasn't been applied to one or more peer nodes.

-  RCO - Resource constraint objective acknowledges that there is finite storage

>    available. In PGD, as lag increases the demands on these storage resources
>    also increase.

Reviewer: Somewhat less verbose:
```suggestion
   available. In PGD, the demand for storage resources also increases as lag increases.
```

-  GEO - Group elasticity objective ensures that any node isn't originating new
   data at a rate that can't be saved to its peer nodes. 

> !!!

Reviewer: This part renders badly: https://deploy-preview-4677--edb-docs-staging.netlify.app/docs/pgd/latest/durability/lag-control/#background

Author: Fixed - though we need to track down the broken !!!info admonition.

> To allow an organization to achieve their objectives, PGD offers Lag Control,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow organizations to achieve their objectives, PGD offers Lag Control,
```

also known as Replication Lag Control. This feature provides a means to
precisely regulate the potential imbalance without intruding on applications, by
transparently introducing a delay to READ WRITE transactions that modify data.
This delay, the PGD Commit Delay, starts at 0ms.

> Using the LAG CONTROL commit scope kind, you can set a maximum time that commits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the LAG CONTROL commit scope kind, you can set a maximum time that
```
